yeah man so and and what do you go by
friend
um azrael's fine okay
and so what yeah welcome
sorry this is this is really confusing
because
there's like a a delay um
delay on stream yeah it's
well you should talk to me on discord
don't talk don't listen to what i'm
saying on stream right
so close the close the stream yeah there
we go
that's better yeah
i'm sorry i'm new to this yep that's
okay man
me and you both i've been doing a little
bit longer than you but it's okay to be
new to it
yeah all right um
sorry where were we i was just i i
mean we weren't really anywhere we were
just starting all right so
asriel tell me a little bit thank you
for coming on
um tell me a little bit about you know
what motivated you to
to come on stream today so
i've been wanting to come on stream for
a while now i think i've been trying
for six months or so but oh wow
well i'm glad you're here today yeah i
think i just wanted to
share my story and um i don't know get
support and all that sure
um and yeah i want to talk about
over analysis and fear of failure
and i also have social anxiety and
all that fun stuff yep
um so yeah can you tell us your story
yeah so um
i guess this year was my second year at
university
and
so it didn't start off great i sort of
took on more than i can handle and i can
say that how i dealt with it wasn't
very good for my mental health
um so
i had a lot of courses i had a lot of
work to do and all that
and i started getting depressed
um i wasn't performing as well and so
like i it was getting sort of
difficult so i started like oh shoot you
can't do
some simple homework like gotta get on
this and
started beating myself up about it
calling myself a failure
and like um started getting afraid
it's like oh shoot what if i can't do
this
and uh it all sort of spiraled downhill
from there
i think i met you in december
was when i started watching your streams
and i've been making progress since then
um i changed majors
because i found that the one i was doing
sort of felt meaningless
purposeless in a way it's like why am i
even doing this
and so yeah i just sort of dropped
everything and changed pictures
okay and i think
um i have a lot of fear of failure
because it's like
i sort of can't mess this up like if i
mess up university then i mess up
my life pretty much and
it's like that for a lot of things um
what else are
you afraid of messing up
so i tried getting a job this summer
um i applied for a few places and like i
sort of gave up pretty quickly and like
even if they hired me like who's gonna
want
me working for them like i'm just gonna
disappoint them and all that
um i don't know i felt like a pretty big
failure and
sort of just sort of hid in my room for
most this year barely going outside or
anything
just playing games and what are you
playing um
so i play minecraft i play starblast.io
which is
an internet browser game uh
kerbal space program
cool stuff i i think those are my main
games
[Music]
cool so and
and so uh i'm sorry i didn't mean to
interrupt your float you were telling a
really great narrative
um so you were saying you're afraid of
you tried to get a job this summer um it
was kind of hard to
even kind of apply and stuff because you
were concerned that people
wouldn't even want to hire you anyway so
you kind of gave up a little bit
easily yeah yeah i hardly felt in the
state
to like have a job and um
okay i think it's like that for a lot of
things actually
like what um so there's the job
um i
i'm supposed to be um going to a dentist
which i haven't really done i think i
need to update my health card
and i don't know i just have trouble
talking to people
especially over the phone and getting
that all set
up and i have i'm afraid of talking to
my family because
i haven't really been completely honest
with them with
what was happening um
what is it that they don't know
so they know that this year was
particularly hard for me
they don't know that i failed my
degree and um they do know that i
switched majors and my dad isn't
particularly happy about that
um he doesn't think i'll be able to do
physics
which is what i switched to and what did
you switch from
i switched from marine biology
okay so he doesn't think you're gonna be
able to do
physics yeah
which is fair because physics is pretty
hard right
sure does your dad
is your dad disappointed in you
um i
it's hard to tell i know if i told him
everything that maybe he would be
i think he is a little yeah okay
and so it sounds to me like
you're afraid of telling people things
because
yeah they may be disappointed if they
knew everything
yeah if they saw the real you
yeah so do you feel like you try to hide
who you really are
yeah i think so um
i've been
working on my mental health this summer
and i've been opening up a little more
but
mainly just online i don't
trust anyone in real life with anything
okay what about like a mental health
provider
like a therapist um i looked into that
but they only have over the phone
appointments because of kovit and
again i have a fear of talking on the
phone much rather go there in person
do they not do like video chat they
should do video chat they do like phone
phone
like boomer phone i think so i haven't
looked into it that much
because most providers are shifting to
tele
health which usually involves video
nowadays
okay but just something to think about
um
okay and so i'm not hearing anything so
i'm hearing about fear of failure
i'm getting the sense that you feel like
you're inevitably gonna disappoint
people
yeah are you disappointed in yourself
i think um considering
everything that has happened in my past
and everything
i think i was sort of destined to fail
like
there was definitely warning signs early
on and i didn't really know better but
i think it was something that was bound
to happen just because i didn't
really know what was going on wha what
do you mean warning signs
what were your warning signs
so even before
second year like i've been sort of
ignoring problems um
i know in high school
i had this fear of death
which um i think that
sort of what happened was so my brother
went off to university
um and i was in grade nine and then i
was sort of left on my own to figure out
life and i don't know my brother was a
big part of my life and so
everything sort of felt pointless and
meaningless after that and i started to
like
question why am i even here and all that
i think part of that was trying to
navigate the family situation at home
because my parents are divorced
and it's sort of like a week on week off
thing where i switch houses
and my mother found someone else to live
with who has
a drinking problem and
an anger problem which don't go well
together
so i think that's where my um
where i started getting addicted to
video games because it was an easy
escape
sure and what i think all that added up
to
what happened this year
so you feel destined to fail
yeah also sounds like your brother was a
really stabilizing influence in your
life
yeah i'd say that
it's hard to lose someone like that
especially at such a formative
time of your life like ninth grade
when did your mom start living with this
other person
probably when i was
seven or eight okay so that sounds like
that's been
in your life for most of what you can
remember
yeah okay my parents
i remember when my parents divorced
i was going into grade four my dad was
driving me to school and they're like
sorry you're not registered with the
school anymore
apparently my mom had just like switch
schools without telling anyone
and so it's like oh i'm at a new school
now
that feel
i was frustrating i
i didn't understand like her reasoning
why she didn't tell anyone
and it's like i don't know
it's yeah my life's been pretty chaotic
i'd say
yeah i was kind of thinking that it it
seems to me like
your life isn't really something that
you have a whole lot of control over
no not really yeah it sounds to me like
you're getting
pushed around by events in life like
your parents divorce
who your mom chooses to live with your
brother leaving
and and so it sounds tough it it feels
to me like
you may be feeling or it seems to me
like maybe you're feeling powerless
yeah i think so a little it's like
i don't know what to do anymore yep
and um so one of the things was like
i know probably around
like grade 10 or so when i was dealing
with all this on my own i'm like
yeah i will um i sort of made a promise
to myself that i would
despite how bad things would get i would
never
consider suicide as an option
so i think that's helped
and um sort of at grade 12
i was really anxious to get out of there
really anxious to go off to university
and live on my own so i could just
escape it all what were you escaping
everything really the whole
situation at home and everything that's
been going on
um switching back and forth between
houses
um sort of means that
everything that i own has to sort of fit
in a backpack
so i can carry it with me where i go
um escaping
[Music]
you know the verbal
the anger and stuff of my stepfather
um my mother tends to be over
controlling
she likes to do everything for me and i
wanted to escape that as well
so yeah sort of everything
wow that's a lot bro
that's a little
do you really feel that way or are you
just making a joke
i i don't think it's as much as some
people go through
okay so what does that mean for you
some people have it worse than you do
yeah
so
i think despite everything that happened
i should
have still been able to find a way
through and
i shouldn't have ended up where i was
where i am
sort of thing where should have you
ended up
um
should i pass this year at university
um and
i don't know i should have just been
destined for success
i was supposed to be successful
and what got in the way
[Music]
um
shitty life syndrome i guess um
i felt very lonely and isolated
this year which didn't help
and i never talked to anyone about how i
was feeling or what i was going through
because
i was afraid of how they would um
judge me for it and like they'd brush it
off and say oh it's nothing
just keep going like you'll get over it
have people told you that before
uh i think my dad tends to um
he's not very emotional um i mean he is
sometimes
but like it's like you just gotta do it
and like
ignore what you're feeling just do it
right
yep and he was always pushing for my
independence
and all that being successful
yep so
and and where is your brother throughout
all this
uh he's in university he's
i think he graduated last year
with a degree in software engineering
and i also have a sister she's off in
alberta
she got married she has
just had a baby this summer
and she's doing pretty good
she's an accountant and then there's me
and i failed
yeah so it so it feels
right and so also practically it sounds
like you actually failed some coursework
yeah i stopped doing my assignments okay
so asriel i'm gonna point out a couple
of things and i'd love to ask you a few
more questions
is that okay yeah so i
see something that really confuses me so
earlier
so recently you said that you were
supposed to be successful you were
destined for success
but that something got in the way yeah
right but earlier when we
we when we were talking to you also said
like when you
applied for a job you were just going to
disappointment
disappoint them even if you got the job
and that you were destined to fail like
i asked you
you know like what do you think about
your current situation you were like
well
now that i look back on it i saw that
like my failure was actually inevitable
and started many years ago
so i'm just i'm going to point out to
you and we'll explore this that there's
yeah decide what was that what did you
just feel
what is it like hearing me point that
out to you
um
i i think i'm still a little nervous for
being on stream
and um
i i'm just confused like my thoughts are
crazy
yep i can imagine that and that's what
i'm pointing out to you
is that i'm seeing a lot of conflicting
thoughts
because on the one hand asriel was
supposed to succeed and everything was
supposed to work out
and on the other hand you sure got
[ __ ] in life
yeah and what are you feeling now
powerless yeah hopeless
and so here's what i'm seeing asriel it
wasn't supposed to be this way
this was the life you were supposed to
live this life
and then something happened and then
that life is now
completely gone and now you've
shifted into this other life
and now this is what your future is and
every step you take on the road
towards failure reminds you that the
road towards success is getting further
and further away
yeah what does that feel like
i don't know um
i don't know about it it's like
i i'm trying sort of
everything to try and recover and get
back where i was
um i'm trying to avoid that road as much
as possible
can you
maybe if i try hard enough
okay
that's a good answer maybe is actually
the right answer
i don't know is also acceptable so i
think what i'm hearing the first thing
that i want to point out asriel is that
you have a deterministic view of life
destined to fail or destined to succeed
it's not how life works bro
right life is a maybe okay
right like you just can't because like
you were destined to succeed and then
what happened
i failed right so like
that the idea of destiny in and of
itself is false
because like clearly it's not true
what do you think about that
um
[Music]
i
i i don't know that's sort of one of the
debates i've been having is like
you know is is are things destined to
happen
or do i have a choice and it's like
well i make the choice based on
what i have to deal with right now and
it's like
i'm doing the best i can so
and yet i am still failing so
part of it seems like destiny okay
sure um
and so let me ask you a question
so if you were destined to succeed and
you ended up failing
is it possible to be destined to fail
and end up succeeding
does it go both ways i hope so
i hope so too right but that's like it's
interesting because if we want to be
scientific about it
and if things were destined and then you
ended up failing like maybe
even though you're hurtling towards
failure a hundred percent
i actually think you should you could be
okay like i'm not kidding
what do you think about that
i think i could be too um but it's gonna
take a lot of work for sure
yeah i think it'll take work
i also think that it's gonna take more
than work
what do you think about that
what more is there than work luck
my bro that's true
um
i i don't i don't know if i really
i don't know how i feel about luck
good when you say i don't know how i
feel about luck what does that mean
because like if it's just
luck then why am i able to influence
things okay so so there's an important
word there
if it's just luck
yeah so it's not just slack it's not
just luck but it's also not
just you
right so i think this is the hard thing
about life
is that we're in control of our actions
but we're not in control of the results
of our actions
i can pick up i can pick up the phone
and i can talk to someone
i can talk to my parents about how i
failed this class
i'm not in control of how they respond
yeah yeah that's true
and how does it feel to not be in
control of how they respond
it's it's hard because i want to make
them understand but i can't
yeah so so that too
you can't make them understand but
you also can't make them not understand
like that understanding is not
determined by you
you can talk to them right but there's
no guarantee that they're going to
understand
so what is it like to pick up the phone
and tell someone that you failed the
correct answer is it's [ __ ]
terrifying
yes that is the right answer okay
right and that's what you feel
so now asriel the question that we get
to
is like how do you as a human being
act in the face of complete terror
i hide in my room which is also the
correct answer
this is where there's a part of you
that's going to want to say
i overcome it with strength and internal
fortitude
no that's not what happens when we face
abject terror we get our asses kicked
that's what happens man it crushes us
yeah and then you wind up where you are
now which is
in your room playing minecraft all day
avoiding your responsibilities and being
crushed by terror
yeah now comes the next question
is that okay
now incorrect
what do you think about that
i
i feel like despite everything that's
going on i should be able to
do something and i shouldn't be hiding
in my room so when you say um
when you say this is the right thing to
do i
don't understand that good
that's what we're here for right so like
so is it the right thing to do no
is it the expected thing to do
absolutely
can we blame you for doing it
absolutely i mean sorry like not really
right like we can't
you know like in a sense like i don't
blame you for responding the way that
you have
does that make sense yeah
like it's understandable and i think
we've got to start there right so i
think
one of the biggest things about taking
control of your life asriel
is starting where you're at instead of
where you should be
think about this with me for a second
okay
we live our lives and we come up with
solutions for our life based on where we
should be not where we are
and then we're confused when it doesn't
work
and it's like man
you know i i can't even come up with an
analogy but do you see how ridiculous
that is
yeah it's like i should be able to fly
like a bird
so i'm gonna flap my wings and like then
i get upset with myself for not being
able to fly
right it's crazy because you keep on
talking about what you should be like
you should be able to overcome that fear
well like if you were a dude who could
overcome that fear then you would have
done it by now
so okay you can't overcome fear here's
the wild thing
is i think that you can still be
successful as long as you acknowledge
that you're [ __ ] up in some way
all right right because then at least
like you know what you're playing it's
sort of like
you know like i don't know like i don't
know if you've ever played dark souls
but like
you know i kind of think about there's a
class in dark souls called deprived
which is like you start the game naked
with a club
and if you think like you can also start
the game in like chainmail armor
with a sword and shield and then you can
play dark souls like pretending that you
have a sword and shield and armor
and then you're gonna lose but if you
like start with the get-go which is like
i'm a naked dude with a club
you can actually play the game but you
just have to like accept that you've got
a club instead of like
armor and a sword you can accept that
something about the way that you were
raised and we're gonna get into this
has made it hard for you to be confident
in yourself and have faith in yourself
that i don't think is your fault so no
wonder like
you don't have like so you say i'm just
going to disappoint them like where the
[ __ ] what what do you base that on
um past experience um
exactly right but here's the thing i
don't know if you know this
but when human beings are born
it's not like natural that they believe
that they're inevitably going to
disappoint people
like people have done studies on the
brain and there's no like i'm going to
disappoint everyone in life center of
the brain
we're taught that we're going to
disappoint people
so the beliefs that you have about
yourself are very reasonable
even if they're wrong what do you think
about that think that makes sense
i don't think they're wrong yep
i know that you and they're they they're
not wrong for you right because
you're not a dumb guy and why do you
believe the things that you believe
because i learned them absolutely
because of
past experience now here's the thing
does past experience determine future
experience
now you sure about that
um
yeah i guess it could
it depends like if it's the same person
then yes
but if it's a different person then
things are
could be different okay are you the same
person you were yesterday
no okay so
right so that's kind of interesting
because what you're shaking like what
you're doing there
if i were to accept your answers what
you seem to be suggesting to me
is that you do have some limited control
over your future
yeah how does that sit with you
yeah that makes sense okay so now we get
to the important question
is it enough
well i'm figuring that out now because
with everything i'm trying i hope it's
enough
that also is the right answer so there's
a
subtle shift in your language asriel and
i'm optimistic for you by the way
and is like you you started out by
saying
i'm just going to disappoint them i'm
destined to fail
i'm destined to be successful i'm
supposed to be this
i should be this right
yeah and and then the question becomes
like like
so those are very deterministic
statements they're black and white
thinking
and now what you're saying is like
maybe or i hope do you
usually think thoughts like that
hold on a second there seemed to be like
a thousand people getting
messages deleted i don't understand
anyway um what what do you think about
i'm gonna just realize that
what do you think about like you know
like shades of grey statements versus
deterministic
like do you usually think in in terms of
like this is going to happen
um uh
not entirely
it's sort of like i have no clue what
will happen
but i think it's gonna be bad okay
right so that makes sense because it
sounds like there have been times in
your life
where you weren't sure what was gonna
happen and what usually happened was
bad so that's a reasonable thing to
expect
right so now if it's okay i'm going to
ask you a couple questions
about your your life and your upbringing
so
um so i'm going to just run through like
what i understood your story to be
actually before we do that can i ask you
so i understand that over
analyzing is part of the like what you
wanted to talk about today i'm not
hearing any sort of over analysis so far
can you tell us about that
i think i think that's um sort of like
like what we were just talking about
where it's like
i'm uncertain what will happen but i
know it will be bad and i can analyze
that
in like so many different ways as oh
this could happen this could happen this
could happen this could happen
i'm gonna have to think about this more
before i take action
it's like and like in all the bad things
that can happen i can only have one
good outcome which is that it succeeds
and the bad outweighs the good in most
cases
yep right so let's let's look at that
because that's fascinating
so what i'm hearing you say is that the
more you
analyze does that
make it easier for you to act or harder
for you to act
harder and generally speaking when we
think about analyzing a problem what is
the goal of analysis
to come to a solution so that you can
act
absolutely accordingly which is weird
right
so the reason that we like use our head
is to figure out how to do things
and yet somehow the more you think the
harder it becomes to do things
yeah and so
what do you think about that
i think i think that's how i was raised
is
um there's only one good outcome in the
restaurant bed and like
i i gotta make the right decisions or
i'm gonna mess up
and things are gonna be bad um
can you tell us what you mean by that's
how i was raised
like if i didn't get do my homework then
i was gonna get in trouble
if i didn't ask my stepfather if he
needed help then he was gonna get angry
at dinner if
i don't know if
if i left my room when he was in
one of his bad moods i was likely to get
in trouble
and what is getting in trouble look like
well
he sort of gets um
angry right and he
he takes it out on me because it's like
oh this is your fault somehow
funds a way to blame me for it um
and i try all that i can to try and stop
stop
that from happening um
but it's not physical it's only verbal
so and then
in the beginning my mother sort of
supported him
but i think near the end
i started to become more vocal about
like
this isn't right i sort of started to
stand up for myself and
i think near the end things were
starting to change
um i know he started seeking help for
his problems a little
um
[Music]
yeah how do you feel about that
it's hard because
when my brother was there it's like oh
we can get through this together but
when it's just me it's like oh
i have to figure this out on my own what
do i do
it was hard but
i think like i understand
that he was going through his own
problems
but doesn't make it right
yeah i mean you know in a bizarre way
asriel i feel
sadder for you now
because it's like now he's on the
journey of self-discovery and
improvement
and like that [ __ ] needed to happen way
earlier
and you started standing up for yourself
and then like you know you needed
someone to do that for you when you were
young
it sounds to me like too little too late
which is almost worse than like nothing
at all
maybe we got there in the end i guess
so what
still [ __ ] you up before he got there
sure
asriel i'm not getting much anger from
you
no i'm not an angry person i
tend to sympathize with others even if
they've done me wrong yeah what do you
think about that
i think that's just
because i can always see their side of
the story
and it's i understand that there are
going through their own troubles
and what does it do to your hurt
when you can see their side of the story
well it takes the blame off of me a
little i guess
sure it
means that i can sort of
find ways of helping them so that
because if i help them then maybe
they'll stop
okay
i'm gonna need a second to think is that
okay sure
so that makes a lot of sense to me
asriel and it's just
so [ __ ] up i want you to listen to
what you're saying
okay i'm going to repeat it back to you
you have an abusive stepfather
and you try to understand him
and the conclusion that you come to is
that if you can help him
because he needs help
then you'll feel better
whereas like that's not really where
like it's not
on you
yeah right and and so i get what you
mean about sort of deflecting blame i
think the interesting thing is that
the other person that you're protecting
by doing that what you also do is you
like prevent yourself from blaming them
yeah so one last psychological point i
want to make or one
kind of psychological point that i want
to make is that
some people believe that depression is
anger turned against the self
that that describes my experience pretty
well yeah
okay so
here's what i think could be going on
with you because i think you have
so when someone grows up in an abusive
household
and when their step parent is abusive
and their
actual parent is even supportive of it
how much anger do you think that that
person should feel
they should be frustrated
that's the understatement of the year my
friend
right like how fair is that
like your mom should be protecting you
again i understand why she wasn't
because
she herself was a little afraid too
yup and i understand that you understand
that which is cool
and at the same time she should have
been protecting you
and i'm not talking about blaming her or
things like that in your particular case
i want you to think about this like
other people
like when you have a step parent who's
abusive towards a child what is the
parent supposed to do
you're supposed to step in absolutely
right so and i i know that you're going
to have your mind is going to generate
certain thoughts
like you're going to want to get go
ahead and give me the counterpoint
when you said that you wanted to say
something else right and explain things
and protect her go ahead protect her
well
i think she herself was also um
a victim of it too um
i think she was doing the best that she
could um
maybe she didn't understand the
situation as well
sure yeah all those things are fair i'm
not trying to demonize your mom do you
feel like we're beating up your mom
asking if you feel that way no
okay i don't think so because it's not
it's genuinely not my intention
so now the question becomes if someone
like you know if someone grows up in
that situation
like sure i understand that you are
understanding
but i think that what's going on is
you're accumulating anger
you're not sending it towards them
you're just accumulating it and then
where does it go
i push it down pretend it doesn't exist
and then it bursts out in second year
university
how so what is it target
because it's energy it's got to go
somewhere
targets me absolutely
gotta go somewhere
right so like now this is how emotions
work
if i win the lottery i'm filled with joy
and then what do i do i spread it around
it's got to go somewhere i can't contain
it it's got to go somewhere
and in your case filled with anger
doesn't have anywhere to go got to keep
it inside
and then now left feel it no of course
you don't
what it feels like is depression
you don't think that i'm just going to
disappoint them
is you being an [ __ ] to yourself
yeah it is there it is it just feels
different
you've gotten so good at not feeling
anger you don't even know what it looks
like
anymore my dude you are
in an abusive relationship with yourself
yep right
and that's like really sad and it's
it's like why why are you that way with
your song
um
i blame myself for everything because
there's always something i could have
done differently
and maybe it would have worked yep right
so right so
that's the thought process that's the
content of your mind i'm asking
why does your mind think in that way
and it's because you were taught
that things are your fault
right like your stepdad was like it's
your fault i'm angry
everything in the world is whose fault
asriel
mine absolutely
right so then like like we asked the
question why do you blame yourself it's
because
those are the rules of the game if you
log on to the game of life
and you're playing this game with
minecraft where you're asriel
and then something burns down halfway
across the world
and then everyone on the server is like
[ __ ] that guy asriel
and it's so [ __ ] up my dude
but we see this a lot right like we see
like you know like i'm gonna just give
you an example of another abusive
relationship so let's say there's like a
husband and wife and
like the husband is physically abusive
and i've dealt with this a lot
and then the wife like i talked to the
wife and she's like yeah he hit me
and then i was like oh like tell me
about that she's like well it's because
you know like i didn't have dinner ready
on time
and if i had dinner ready on time
he wouldn't have hit me which is
true right and like it it's true
but it's also [ __ ] up it doesn't make
it okay
even if it's true and i think the
problem
that i'm seeing in you is that like
there's a lot of truth in your mind of
things which i think unfortunately
you're a smart guy
like if you were stupider i could
convince you that you were wrong
but i think that you learned and this is
what happens when kids grow up right
like this is a survival mechanism
if i have a dog that i'm physically
abusive to the dog learns how to not get
hit
and you learned because he sure as hell
isn't taking any of the blame in the
relationship
and your mom is also reinforcing like
whose fault is it that he's mean to you
it's mine right and generally speaking
she's supposed to tell you the opposite
and so you've learned that everything is
your fault
even things that aren't your fault and
then let me ask you something what is a
kid
who feels like things that are not their
fault are their fault
how do they think about their ability to
control the future
um they think that
they can control everything and if
something doesn't happen
correctly it's their fault yep
it's bizarre right
and that's what we see in you
you feel like you have perfect control
all of the responsibility actually it's
not
control i'm going to use the word
responsibility you feel like you are
responsible for controlling your
future and at the same time you feel
powerless
and why do you feel powerless
because deep down you recognize that you
actually don't control your stepdad
right so that kid is conflicted because
everyone is telling him
you are in control of the situation but
then there are horrible truths that you
can't control your stepdad's behavior
and it's this core conflict of like
i'm in control but i'm actually
powerless
does that make sense yeah
is that how you feel
yeah it's like i'm powerless now
but if i work a little harder i'll be in
control
yeah right so like if you had asked your
dad for help
then then you'll be okay
and so so it's interesting because
subtly and i i think you're right there
that like
you have this idea that if you do
something that something will happen but
i think unfortunately as you've learned
you can't really control
what's gonna happen and what i'm hearing
you actually try to do and and this may
be a bit abstract
you're trying to shift your life back
into the world of [ __ ]
like this is the way your life should be
and if you could just get back on that
track
then everything's gonna be fine
that's what i feel from you it's like i
just need to board that train and then
the train will take me where i need to
go
you're living in fantasy it's not how it
works man
it's sad all right
huh
i i think that could be true yeah
what makes you think that could be true
i tend to um i tend to fantasize a lot
i'm a big dreamer i
like to dream of the future and
even if it's not relating to me i like
to think of
you know epic space battles and
civilizations on the edge of the
universe and all that
that's cool man it is
so it sounds like you're familiar with
fantasy are you familiar with hope
[Music]
not so much right
and i think here's the problem is that
fantasy doesn't actually help us move
forward
what do you think about that
i i disagree okay because like
it's like this is where i want to go
which is the fantasy and it's like all
right how do i get there
and then i can plan it out
and hopefully go in the direction i want
okay
so that's i i stand corrected
i concede the point so when you plan it
out
does it help you get there
yes i think so
now i'm really confused because
this doesn't sound to me like someone
who's destined to fail
help me help me understand are you
destined to fail
no are you just saying that because
that's the right answer or do you
actually believe that
because this is like healthy gamer dr k
and i'm supposed to be inspirational
no i i don't i don't think i'm
destined to fail
but in order to succeed i would need to
work really hard
for it okay and what do you need to
work really hard towards
getting my life back where it was
getting back on the success train
okay so i think that's the wrong answer
so here's why i think the success train
is an illusion
it's it's wishing you had chain mail and
a sword
right so i understand i i think you can
be successful
but i think like instead of chasing that
fantasy of the success train i think
it's like way
dirtier than that
there's something about that that seems
like very clean and beautiful
and alluring to me i think there's
absolutely hope and i think i
absolutely see success in your future i
just think it's gonna be like
messier than you or that i'm getting
from you now
maybe i like to think that everything
will just work
out but
that's not the case obviously
yeah so that can be a comforting thought
asriel and now i think we get into like
some really nuanced territory
where i don't think that everything is
just going to work out
i think you can build the life that you
want to and if you're studying physics
because you want to discover
extraterrestrial life one day
i'd say [ __ ] dude go for it
you know and and like you're interested
in science fiction and understanding
like how the universe works and like the
frontiers of like
space travel and all that kind of i'd
say go for it man i just think it's
gonna be messy
yeah and i don't think that that's
necessarily bad
okay right because i i think what you're
doing and now we're going to kind of go
back to some of your like psychological
patterns
because what you're always doing is
looking for the perfect solution
because let me tell you why you think
you have a fear of failure
and the reason that you think is to get
rid of the fear of failure because if
you can find that perfect solution where
there's no chance of failure
then do you need to have fear you know
that's what you try to do right you try
to remove fear through thinking
agreed yep and that's a perfect solution
there it is again do you see the fantasy
of that if i can find that
magical road then i don't have to deal
with the fear it's so clean and it's so
beautiful
and i can figure out the perfect thing
to say and then i can pick up the phone
and i can talk to someone
all i need to know to pick up the phone
and talk to someone is i have to figure
out what's the
perfect thing to say yeah
because that's what you do man you look
for it like how can i tell my dad
that i failed and how can i phrase it
so that he doesn't judge me
it's the magical train how do i board
that train if i
think really really hard and i analyze
and analyze and analyze
i can find i can board the magic train
and he won't be disappointed
so you're overthinking and you're
you're your search for fantasy is to
protect you
from fear it's your antidote to fear
and it's paralyzing because
there isn't a perfect solution
and so you're searching for a cure to
fear that doesn't exist do you disagree
[Music]
i think there's always a perfect
solution but
like i don't think things have to be
messy
okay i think that's a fair point
so here's my question to you
so actually it's not a question i'm just
gonna make a point for you to think
about okay
i think that there may be perfect
solutions and i certainly have felt that
i think there are times in my life for
example like as a psychiatrist sometimes
i deal with people
who are suicidal and then i think that
sometimes there is like the perfect
thing to say
and this is someone who's like wants to
kill themselves
and then you like you gotta say the
right thing can't say the wrong thing
and so i do believe that those things
exist i'm with you
what i have found and this is something
you've got to think about this isn't
something that i can ask you questions
because you're a smart guy i think
you've got to come to your own
conclusion
is that building a strategy based on
perfect solutions
is a bad strategy
because perfect solutions are few and
far between
and they're hard to find whereas
building a strategy based on solutions
that are good enough
tends to be a better strategy
and while it ain't perfect it's actually
gonna get you to where you go like you
know i just think about cooking
and it's like you can't like sure you
can make a perfect cookie but
that's hard making a decent cookie
actually gets you most of the way there
what do you think about that
i think that's true
i do a lot of cooking and it's sort of
like i just improvise and
figure out what works what doesn't just
by trial and error
okay interesting right so why can you do
that with cooking but you can't do that
with other things in your life
because with cooking it's just me
and it's like if i mess this up oh well
it's like the consequences aren't that
big i just have
bad food
now i'm gonna say something that's
absolutely go ahead sorry
yeah sorry it's like um
you know i could have bad food but most
time it turns out pretty good
so i i think it works
and and so what makes real life
different
because in real life you only have one
shot
to make it pretty good
because like if i fail
and i waste all that money in university
then i'm gonna end up broke and i'm not
gonna have a degree and i'm not gonna
have a job
and then i will be nowhere and i can't
how would i recover from that i can't go
back to university because i'll just
waste more money that i don't have
so i only have one shot
right yeah i can see why you think that
way
and as someone who
also failed a lot
like i mean i you know i had
i had a d average after two years of
college
had a lot of f's took me five years
probably took would have taken me five
and a half or six years to graduate
really busted my ass in my fifth year
and and managed to graduate
just one year late i don't know what the
is it canadian uses of four canadian
schools use
a four-point gpa system
yeah so i graduated with a 2.5 and had
less than a 2.0 after two years
and what you're saying is logical
and in my experience real life turns out
to be way more like cooking than you
would imagine
and i'm not saying that the steaks
aren't the same like if you overcook
your chicken like not that big of a deal
being a hundred thousand dollars in debt
slightly bigger deal
and at the same time i i just don't
that's not
it's just not how life works man like
one relationship is not
you know like even when it comes to your
your mom and your stepdad
they kind of [ __ ] you up and at the
same time
doesn't mean that they can't try to fix
it
what do you think about that
um i don't think
i think it's up to me to fix it honestly
who's surprised you said that
right because what are you doing there
i'm blaming myself for what happened
yep you see how quick you are to do that
yeah and and and so it's so hard because
when you blame yourself for what
happened it's like it
like really raises the stakes right it's
like kind of it's hard it's a hard way
to live man
and you know i
i feel like this is sort of an abstract
or theoretical discussion is this
helpful for you
um
i think so how so
i think it helps me understand sort of
what's going on um
i don't know i tend to be pretty
abstract
yeah i think you're a thinker yeah
yeah i am too i really enjoy it
at the same time i'm i'm noticing a
little bit of a pressure within me
to try to make this practically
applicable to you
yeah i think so okay
so here's can we do that for a little
bit
sure so it's cool like we like have
contemplated like oh like what is your
psychology like man
and then it's like today is august 5th
and you're going to wake up tomorrow
morning and it's going to be august 6th
and like what the [ __ ] do you do with
all this
right so like let's talk about that for
a second because i don't know
i mean have i helped you today like sure
we've jerked each other off
intellectually
and philosophized but
you know it's like is this actually
gonna help you like
maybe down the road or something sure
but like let's think about
how to actually help you so here's the
first thing that i want you to
really recognize i want you to see that
you have a pattern within yourself
that you consider
failure so you have a fear of
disappointing people
and you have a fear of messing up
because ultimately you're responsible
and if you screw up you screw up and
that
the way that your mind tries to fix that
fear is by analysis
until you find a perfect solution
and that in turn paralyzes you
it keeps you from acting as we talked
about analysis
normally is designed to help you act and
what it does is the exact opposite
and if you don't act your life is going
to continue going down
yeah so bizarrely what you need to do is
make
to based on bad decisions
because your decision is not nearly it's
not going to be perfect and in your mind
any solution that is not perfect is
it's gonna i'm gonna fail yep
but that's not how things work really
right
like it's not like if you overcook your
chicken it's inedible
like there tend to be some things that
are gonna really mess up your life
and then there's like a perfect solution
but like most of the things that you're
gonna do are gonna kind of work out okay
like that i mean that's just been my
experience
but i i want you to more importantly
like even even despite challenging that
i think the more important thing is to
recognize that when you
act when you try to act that you're
gonna look for a perfect solution
and then that that search for the
perfect solution is going to impede your
actual action
which in turn is going to hold you back
in life
and that when you've actually grown and
become confident in something you did it
through trial and error
not painstaking research and perfect
solutions through trial and error
and honestly asriel that is exactly what
my experience was
i started my third year of college and i
was like this isn't working
and i haven't figured out how to fix it
but i gotta do something
and like i didn't turn like i didn't go
from
2.0 to 4.0 it was like 2.6
the next semester and then it was like
3.1
and then it was like 3.0 and then it was
like 3.4
and i sort of wound up with a 2.5
which is not that much better
you know than i mean it's it's good
enough
so i want you to just recognize that
your fear
like you're going to have this very
tangible fear that's going to keep you
from acting
and that your mind is going to analyze
to try to make the fear go away
but that actually what it does is like
paralyzes you further
so your solution is actually your
problem
so then so yep when i would just
would i just act on my first instance
that's going to be impossible for you
because the programming is pretty deep
yeah right so you can't just act on your
first
instinct what you need to do is like
notice this pattern within yourself
and then as best as you can try to set
it aside in the tiniest ways
so like i think for example you should
try to find a therapist
and what's happening is you're afraid of
talking to them on the phone
and so notice that fear and then run a
little experiment because you're a
physicist at heart
and what you need to do as real like so
all of your
current hypotheses are based on the data
of the past
and what i would really love it if you
could do is collect your own experiment
that does not involve your stepfather
i mean collect your own data run a
[ __ ] experiment without him
because i can almost guarantee you it's
going to give you different data
your sense of confidence in yourself
is based on like him interfering with
your [ __ ] experiment
so like no wonder you think that you're
incapable of doing everything and
everything is your fault because that's
like
that's what he taught you
and when it turns out like you know did
your stepfather think you were a good
cook
i didn't cook much fascinating
it's almost as if you like learned good
things and life skills when he wasn't
around
right so like notice that you have the
fear and like just run a couple
experiments right so like try picking up
the phone
and recognize that you have this beast
within you that's going to say
oh my god you're going to screw it up
you're going to screw it up you're going
to say the wrong thing
they're going to say who is this idiot
who's calling me he's not even worth my
time as a therapist like he's too dumb
you're gonna have all these like random
thoughts and it's like
like what did you think was gonna happen
today
i thought i was gonna mess up how are
you doing
fine i'm pretty good
well
i i do i have to admit that
i was trying to control the situation
before i got on
actually this morning and got a webcam
and a mic
just for this well i plan on using it
for other things too but good for you
i'm confused though like how like did
you find the perfect solution to this
did you figure it out
well it felt like a pretty good solution
um
yeah i'd agree
so can i tell you what i saw today
asriel
i saw a guy who showed up and gave it
his best shot
with no guarantees took a [ __ ] risk
yeah like the chance that like maybe dr
k
is gonna think i'm an idiot and everyone
on twitch that is gonna think i'm stupid
and i may disappoint not only your
family
but this thing called the internet
and you didn't cause here's the crazy
thing asriel i think you're actually a
pretty capable guy
i think you're smart you're compelling
you have a nice smile
i think you try really hard you're a
compassionate person you care about
other people sometimes to the detriment
of yourself
and if you can stop stop being angry
with yourself and cut yourself a break
i think you're gonna do great
i don't need you to be perfect i just
need you to be you
i don't need you to be on that track
that you should be and think about all
the preparation you could have done
instead of what you did
what you did was like the minimum
necessary which is you got a webcam and
a mic
and thank you for that because if you
hadn't done that this would have sucked
well i already had a a webcam and a mic
on my computer it was just bad quality
so like that's that's i think a perfect
example my dude
because like this is the amount of
control that you have in life
you could have made this experience
worse but instead
you put forth a little bit of effort and
you made it a little bit better
and that i think is all you need to do
it's going to be anxiety provoking
there's a chance you're going to
disappoint people
and that monster of fear is gonna be
there
and at the same time like it takes huge
balls to come on here
especially six months after you signed
up like there's a certain amount of like
idiotic adrenaline when you sign up and
if we're like yeah come on next week
we don't give your mind time to like
think through things
if i'm honest it's um i sort of signed
up multiple times
it sort of like took multiple shots in
the dark
okay um
but yeah each time i refined my response
to be a little better until
finally it worked and i'm like wow and
actually think i'd be on today
yeah interesting i wonder if that means
that everyone else is going to refine
their responses
but i i i wouldn't are you sure it's
anyway we don't need to get into that
but that also is like kind of cool right
like so that's kind of respectable
like if at first you don't like but i
thought you just got one shot at stuff
i'm confused
now i'm confused because what you're
describing is that the road to success
is trial and error
and not to do things perfectly out of
the gate
i think um i think that's what i'm
learning now is sort of
trial and error but that's not how i
used to think
um i do trial and error for some things
but for other things
the risk is too great yep
that's that's yeah how i think of it yep
and that's okay
right so i want you to notice like
you're going to have a conversation with
yourself
and asriel is going to ask terrifying
asriel
hey buddy can we try this
and then sometime terrified astral is
going to be like absolutely not
no way we are not going to ask that
person out on a date
cannot do it
and and there are going to be some
things like hey can we get go on the
internet and bear our deepest darkest
feelings to random people on twitch
and be judged by them because we have
social anxiety
and then terrified asriel is like go for
it
that's the funny thing is that i
actually i trust twitch
more than i trust real people
and that's i know people call that funny
but i'm with you
i'm with you bro because i think we have
this perception that twitch is like full
of
[ __ ] but like the crazy thing
is it's like the exact opposite
like all you have to do is give people
an opportunity to like be
decent human beings and they amaze me
can't let them take advantage of you
though because they'll still troll you
i'll get you
they catch you with your pants down but
yeah it's cool right it's amazing like
how much people on the internet
can help you and support you and how
loving and caring
of individuals they can be
it's wild it is
so last thing i'm gonna ask you asriel
is like
i want concretely like what are you
gonna
do like today is august 5th
and what are you going to do tomorrow
or today
um well i have a list of all the things
that i'm supposed to do
great i love making lists of things that
i'm supposed to do that i never end up
doing
it's one of my favorite pastimes
yep
i i guess i'm just gonna try things
um so i'd be more concrete i'd pick one
of those things on your list
one of those what's just pick one
all right um
i am
what if i i picked the most the least
important one fine
you can pick whatever you want what's
the very important one
actually it's pretty important but um
i sort of have a minecraft mod pack that
i'm working on
and um it's pretty much
ready it's just that i'm trying to
release like
get the description and everything so
people know what it's about
and the fear i have with that is like oh
no one's going to be interested
but i i can try it anyways
i guess see what happens so so
so this is what i want you to do i want
you to notice that fear
as if it's like a part of you
right so there's going to be like a
little corner of your mind or a big
corner of your mind that's filled with
that fear
and that fear is going to tell you no
you can't release that description
because the description isn't good
enough
you need to revise it more
don't half-ass it right don't just show
up today with your like inbuilt camera
but at the same time don't cancel and
not come on stream
find that middle road of okay like i'm
gonna make it give it a decent shot
i'm gonna spend an hour coming up with
the description i'm gonna sleep on it
so i want you to come up with the
description today sleep on it
give it a pass tomorrow and then
everyone into a chat is asking for the
link
oh boy right so
so when you say oh boy what happened
what happened when i told you that
what happened within you
it's like
it's not ready yet so but what is that
don't tell me don't tell me the content
notice what happens there's like
a serpent that is uncoiling and right
it's like a cobra that's like rearing up
and it's flaring its hood
you feel that yeah
like like what what are they gonna think
so so notice that thing don't get lost
in the thoughts themselves now we're
gonna meditate but sort of a weird
meditation
close your eyes okay one sec
yep
okay so you're gonna draft a description
today
can you do that
i can start how long is a description
well i'm trying to describe every little
thing
so it's pretty long description so don't
describe every little thing
so you can list as much as you want to
but the description should be like one
paragraph
i think i don't know how mind packed
mods
minecraft mod packs or whatever how long
their descriptions are
but like they're nice to be like i have
the description it's just i'm trying to
describe all the features involved and
all that
okay so are we talking about like a
notepad text file that has the full
description
are we talking about the blurb that
people like download
like that describes the mod before they
download it
the full description okay so the full so
this is like in a text file
and it can be like a hundred pages right
yeah okay okay okay fine okay so i want
you to just
think about that description for a
second you're gonna try to work on it
today
you're gonna sleep on what you did
you're gonna work on it tomorrow
how do you feel emotionally and what
what are you thinking in your head
um i think i can do that okay
i don't feel anything okay
great so this is what i'm gonna do i'm
gonna ask everyone else to sit up
straight
and i want you guys to pick something so
we're gonna give you guys about 30
seconds to
think of something that you want to do
that's like on your to-do list that is
hard for you to do or that you're
procrastinating about
or whatever it's ideally something that
you're afraid of doing
so this is going to be like a
fear-oriented meditation
okay now i'm going to say something
asriel to trigger you
okay and this is going to be hard
because then what i want you guys at
home to do
is think about the scenario
that you're trying to avoid
so in your case we're going to think
about like what's going to evoke
judgment
so asriel everyone on twitch wants the
link
and what happens watch it catch it
experiment
what happens within you um
felt something in my chest yep
that that's all i felt okay and what's
happening in your mind
i i don't know
it's sort of
sort of blank okay so hold on a second
i thought that when we talked about
sharing the link you would be paralyzed
with fear
because that's what started to happen
when i first said it right
the first time i thought you're a legit
i'm still legit
oh they want the link
like on friday like people are gonna ask
me about it and if you've got your [ __ ]
together
see we're gonna make it real for you now
you can't gotta play with live ammo
they're gonna ask me on friday when i
stream next they're like where's the
link
and i'm gonna be like okay here it is
now what do you see what's happening
with you asriel
i gotta do it now okay
they're they're depending on me how does
that feel
um
tightness in the chest a little fidgety
okay um
heart rate's increased okay so you're
noticing all these physical sensations
good
are you afraid
a little bit but it's sort of like
well now i know what i have to do
is having to do it does that feel like
good or bad
i i think that feels good [ __ ] weird
right so now i want to point out
something very subtle in your language
this entire conversation we've been
talking about the outcome
we've been talking about people are
going to be disappointed this is going
to happen
we've been talking about the effects the
results
they're going to be disappointed to have
me work with them anyway i'm destined to
fail i'm going to fail out of college
i'm going to be in debt
those are all outcomes they're not
actions
the way to move forward in life it's
what i have to do
it's not about what happens it's about
what i have to do it's about what you
have to do
not about what has to happen because you
can't [ __ ] control that
and now we come to the crux of it which
is as a human being in life you are
entitled to your actions
you're not entitled to results
you have to work on your mind craft pack
or whatever
and write your description and upload it
because that's what you have to do
you can't control whether people are
gonna like it or gonna hate it
you could be traumatized because of how
bad it is
in their response so be it
trial and [ __ ] error my friend
all right
how you feeling
um
determined good
right it's like kerbal space program
like sometimes stuff crashes but you
gotta do it
and so people say like oh just do it i'm
not saying just do it
what i'm saying is like look at doing it
recognize the horrible fear that lives
within you
the sense that you're a piece of [ __ ]
and that you're inevitably going to
disappoint
and give them the finger and then do it
anyway
don't just do it recognize all of these
things that hold you back
recognize how terrible of a person
you've been taught that you
are and then say you know what i'm not
going to give into that
i'm going to try anyway don't just do it
do it in spite of all of the reasons to
not do it
you're telling me that there's one road
to success and there are a thousand
roads to failure
and what i'm telling you is that you can
have a thousand reasons to not do
something
and all you need is one to just [ __ ]
do it
that which you think holds you back in
life is actually like completely
irrelevant
they can try to hold you back as much as
they want to for a thousand different
reasons as real
and all you need is one good reason to
upload and you're gonna [ __ ] upload
it and they can go [ __ ] themselves if
they don't like it
all right how do you feel
um
all right i feel all right okay all
right
okay good i'll take it you can open your
eyes
all right man so that's what i got
any questions
so
it's not about just doing it
it's a it's about
i'm gonna do it
so don't just do it do it in spite of
everything
in spite of the thousand reasons
that that are holding me back
because just do it absolutely just do it
implies
ignore all of these parts of yourself
just just do it man just
ignore all that crap just ignore it and
just do it i'm saying
that doesn't work you can't ignore it
what you need to do is embrace it
you know it's like when you're playing
dark souls you can't just pretend to
have chain mail and then just
just just pretend that you've got
chainmail and go and like
just pretend ignore
live the life pretend you're in the life
of your fantasy
and act that way it doesn't work
start from where you are don't just do
it you can't just
do it you have to do it anyway but
you've got to do it in spite of all the
baggage that you've got
right you got to play the hand that
you're dealt not the hand that you want
and that involves acknowledging and
accepting that you have this fear
that you've been taught that you're
destined for failure
it doesn't mean that it's actually true
it's just what you were taught
it's like people who are taught that the
earth is flat
it's just what you were taught doesn't
make it real
right and now the flat earthers on
twitch are going to tell me
but so be it
but like that's cool man it's it's okay
that you think you're a failure it's
okay that
you're inevitable to fail and then also
like
collect your own data as real because
this is not the life
you are not the person that your
stepfather thinks you are you're the
person
actually that you are you don't even
know who you are
so try to collect some data
and do it in spite of everything
then you'll succeed at least it's
worked for me your mileage may vary
all right all right man
any last questions or thoughts that was
a great summary by the way
um i i think i'm good
okay i'll i'll try and see what i can do
that's all we ask and what i will tell
you is that
if you do have a link that we can share
on friday that would be awesome
today is wednesday so that gives me two
days
yep and at the same time
twitch chat how are we gonna feel about
him if we don't have a link
on friday
what's our sentiment
okay okay
so i don't know if you can predict do
you can you imagine what
twitch had to say
i want to say disappointed no they're
not going to be disappointed
apparently they're going to burn the
world down
or they love you it's a little bit
unclear
so they're gonna riot they're not gonna
be disappointed
they're gonna riot or they'll they'll
forgive you
which so you know that's like right like
trial and error sometimes means that you
get error it's not trial and success
it's trial and error so it can be both
so you know do the best that you can i
suspect twitch chat will forgive you
but also that they really do want to see
they want because here's the thing like
here's the thing
if you can do it they can do it
so there is a big burden on your
shoulders which is that now you come
on on the stream and they're counting on
you
and so i do i know it's crazy but i i i
think that you can disappoint them
which is a real possibility on the other
hand what you can also do since you're a
compassionate person is like
you can set your own feelings aside
about judgment
and recognize that if you can share with
us a link on friday sure there's a lot
of pressure and i recognize i'm putting
it on you
but like that's what people see right
like they want to see progress
and you can give them hope which is a
big burden to place on your shoulders
but i'm telling you um asriel i can't do
this alone
we need we need your mind crackling
all right all right so it seems like
they love you it's apparently one person
wants to smell you
i don't think they do it's a little hot
here
be careful i mean don't assume that you
know what twitch chat wants
oh oh right because they'll be like
challenge accepted
that they want my urine or bathwater or
whatever
right that's oh boy
all right man this is turning south real
quick so i'm gonna say goodbye
and good luck and um i look forward to
hearing from you man and and no sweat if
you can't
all right all right take care man all
right you too
bye bye okay
chat
yeah so that's you know that's life
you're you're trying to
graduate from college and then suddenly
you know your sense and odors become
the rage of the internet
and and really i want you guys to like
think long and hard if you guys struggle
with this kind of over analysis fear of
failure thing
because this is a very poorly understood
um little mechanism which is that
the reason we overthink is to alleviate
fear from ourselves but the funny thing
is that the more we think the smarter we
are
the more possibilities our mind
generates
about how things can go wrong and it's a
vicious cycle because if i generate 10
possibilities
then i need to think through each of
those to remove that fear
and each time i think about removing the
fear i generate more possibilities
and this is why we get stuck
how do i overcome the fear of failure
first you understand where the fear of
failure comes from
and then you recognize that your
solutions to the fear of failure
are actually propagating their feel of
failure and no wonder y'all can't
overcome it
it's like how many holes do i need to
poke
in my tire to fill it up with air
because the more holes that i put in my
tire the more places air can go in
how many holes do i need to poke and
it's like no man you don't poke holes
it's bizarre but the solutions that our
mind sometimes comes up with
are actually the very problem that keeps
us paralyzed
and so the way that you overcome your
fear of failures first of all in
recognizing that over analysis can make
it worse
recognizing that the fear of failure is
built upon
certain impressions that you have of
yourself
and that those impressions may have been
true of the past but they're not
necessarily representative of the future
and the third thing is that you don't
really overcome your fear of failure
that too is fantasy
it's sort of like i overcome my fear of
failure and then i can go live my life
right it's like shifting to the the
track of easy success
once i overcome my fear of failure then
i can start living my life
that in of itself is the wrong attitude
you never overcome your feeling
you just live your life in spite of it
so that which you're afraid of
think about doing it try to do it and as
you try to do it
close your eyes and pay attention to
yourself and you're going to feel that
that serpent coil up
the fear is going to uncoil because it's
been living deep down in your belly
and it's going to rise up and it's going
to take over the rest of your body
and when it does that be like just sit
with it for a second say okay can i do
it anyway
you don't overcome your feeling fear of
failure you act in spite of it
and when you start acting in spite of
things
instead of trying to fix them before you
act then you'll stop being stuck
because you guys want to fix everything
before you do anything
i better start working out so i don't
embarrass myself at the gym
it's like backwards but it makes sense
so don't try to fix things just do
things
just do things don't just do things
recognize that
try to do something and notice what
comes up and give yourself some time and
some space
that some of these battles you're going
to win and some of them you're going to
lose sometimes the fear is going to win
and sometimes you're going to act in
spite of the fear and the cool thing
that happens
is like as you act in spite of the fear
what actually happens is when you can
act in spite of the fear
then next time around the fear isn't as
powerful
because it's like oh that fear was
predicting all these problems and that
actually didn't work
and so this tiny voice is going to start
to grow with inside
inside you it's like oh maybe i don't
need to worry about the fear
and then you struggle again and the fear
rises up
sometimes you win sometimes you lose you
act again and it's like oh
maybe i didn't need to worry about it
it's not so bad
and the more that you do that that's
called confidence
and confidence isn't about in this last
thing i'll kind of like explain
so analysis to
bypass fear or negate fear does not lead
to
confidence in fact all it does is like
give in to the fear
because you're accepting the fear it's
not courage it's removing fear from the
equation
that's not overcoming your fear that's
just removing it from the equation
confidence is about acting in the face
of uncertainty
because you believe that you can manage
what comes
right if you're like confident in a
video game and like let's say it's a
multiplayer game
you're like confident that like there
could be a good person on the other team
but like i'm gonna be able to handle it
and i'm gonna do the best that i can
some games i'll win some games i'll lose
and so if you want to build confidence
and overcome fear
don't try to solve so that the fear is
no longer an issue that's not how you do
it it's in fact it's the exact opposite
the way you do it is by like actually
acting in spite of the fear and then you
realize oh like the fear doesn't
actually have a hold on me
you guys don't need to overcome the fear
you need to be like
buff your fear resistance and the fear
can be whatever it wants to but if
you've got like
90 fear resistance then like it's not
going to control you anymore
so hopefully that makes sense it's not
ignorance
it's actually pure awareness it's the
opposite of ignorance
it's acknowledging and understanding
that sometimes the fear will control you
and sometimes it won't and that the more
that you practice and the more you try
the less it'll start to control you and
then you'll start to believe in yourself
and then the fear can be as big as it is
but your confidence is going to be big
too and you'll be able to handle it
yeah you have to level up your fear
resistance absolutely okay twitch who
are you rating